docs/source/deprecated.rst, before:

Deprecated Features
===================

As features are deprecated and cleaned up, they are documented
here with steps to update your configuration for replacements.


Filters without subfilters (since 2.22)
---------------------------------------

In older urlwatch versions, it was possible to write custom
filters that do not take a ``subfilter`` as argument.

If you have written your own filter code like this:

.. code:: python

   class CustomFilter(filters.FilterBase):
       """My old custom filter"""

       __kind__ = 'foo'

       def filter(self, data):
           ...

You have to update your filter to take an optional subfilter
argument (if the filter configuration does not have a subfilter
defined, the value of ``subfilter`` will be ``None``):

.. code:: python

   class CustomFilter(filters.FilterBase):
       """My new custom filter"""

       __kind__ = 'foo'

       def filter(self, data, subfilter):
           ...


string-based filter definitions (since 2.19)
--------------------------------------------

With urlwatch 2.19, string-based filter lists are deprecated,
because they are not as flexible as dict-based filter lists
and had some problems (e.g. ``:`` and ``,`` are treated in a
special way and cannot be used in subfilters easily).
If you have a filter definition like this:

.. code:: yaml

   filter: css:body,html2text:re,strip

You can get the same results with a filter definition like this:

.. code:: yaml

   filter:
     - css:
         selector: body
     - html2text:
         method: re
     - strip

Since ``selector`` is the default subfilter for ``css``, and ``method``
is the default subfilter for ``html2text``, this can also be written as:

.. code:: yaml

   filter:
     - css: body
     - html2text: re
     - strip

If you just have a single filter such as:

.. code:: yaml

   filter: html2text

You can change this filter to dict-based using:

.. code:: yaml

   filter:
     - html2text


keyring setting in SMTP reporter configuration (since 2.18)
-----------------------------------------------------------

Since version 2.18, the SMTP reporter configuration now uses ``auth``
to decide if SMTP authentication should be done or not. Previously,
this setting was called ``keyring``. If you have an old configuration
like this:

.. code:: yaml

   report:
     email:
       smtp:
         host: localhost
         keyring: false
         port: 25
         starttls: true
       subject: '{count} changes: {jobs}'

You can change the setting to this (replace ``keyring`` with ``auth``):

.. code:: yaml

   report:
     email:
       smtp:
         host: localhost
         auth: false
         port: 25
         starttls: true
       subject: '{count} changes: {jobs}'

Commit message:

Release management / docs update for Playwright migration

docs/source/deprecated.rst, after:

Deprecated Features
===================

As features are deprecated and cleaned up, they are documented
here with steps to update your configuration for replacements.


``networkidle0`` and ``networkidle2`` for ``wait_until`` in browser jobs (since 2.28)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Since version 2.28, execution of browser jobs uses Playwright instead of pyppetteer.

The previously-supported ``wait_until`` values of ``networkidle0`` and ``networkidle2``
are not supported anymore. Playwright supports the values ``load``, ``domcontentloaded``,
``networkidle`` (discouraged) or ``commit`` instead.

Existing settings of ``networkidle0`` and ``networkidle2`` will be mapped to
``networkidle``, and a warning will be issued. To silence the warning and continue
to use ``networkidle``, specify ``wait_until: networkidle`` explicitly.


Filters without subfilters (since 2.22)
---------------------------------------

In older urlwatch versions, it was possible to write custom
filters that do not take a ``subfilter`` as argument.

If you have written your own filter code like this:

.. code:: python

   class CustomFilter(filters.FilterBase):
       """My old custom filter"""

       __kind__ = 'foo'

       def filter(self, data):
           ...

You have to update your filter to take an optional subfilter
argument (if the filter configuration does not have a subfilter
defined, the value of ``subfilter`` will be ``None``):

.. code:: python

   class CustomFilter(filters.FilterBase):
       """My new custom filter"""

       __kind__ = 'foo'

       def filter(self, data, subfilter):
           ...


string-based filter definitions (since 2.19)
--------------------------------------------

With urlwatch 2.19, string-based filter lists are deprecated,
because they are not as flexible as dict-based filter lists
and had some problems (e.g. ``:`` and ``,`` are treated in a
special way and cannot be used in subfilters easily).
If you have a filter definition like this:

.. code:: yaml

   filter: css:body,html2text:re,strip

You can get the same results with a filter definition like this:

.. code:: yaml

   filter:
     - css:
         selector: body
     - html2text:
         method: re
     - strip

Since ``selector`` is the default subfilter for ``css``, and ``method``
is the default subfilter for ``html2text``, this can also be written as:

.. code:: yaml

   filter:
     - css: body
     - html2text: re
     - strip

If you just have a single filter such as:

.. code:: yaml

   filter: html2text

You can change this filter to dict-based using:

.. code:: yaml

   filter:
     - html2text


keyring setting in SMTP reporter configuration (since 2.18)
-----------------------------------------------------------

Since version 2.18, the SMTP reporter configuration now uses ``auth``
to decide if SMTP authentication should be done or not. Previously,
this setting was called ``keyring``. If you have an old configuration
like this:

.. code:: yaml

   report:
     email:
       smtp:
         host: localhost
         keyring: false
         port: 25
         starttls: true
       subject: '{count} changes: {jobs}'

You can change the setting to this (replace ``keyring`` with ``auth``):

.. code:: yaml

   report:
     email:
       smtp:
         host: localhost
         auth: false
         port: 25
         starttls: true
       subject: '{count} changes: {jobs}'
